---
layout: post
title: Mark 8:14-21
category: Bible
date: 22-Sep-2020
---

> 14 The disciples had forgotten to bring bread, except for one loaf they had with them in the boat. 15 “Be careful,” Jesus warned them. “Watch out for the yeast of the Pharisees and that of Herod.” 16 They discussed this with one another and said, “It is because we have no bread.”
17 Aware of their discussion, Jesus asked them: “Why are you talking about having no bread? Do you still not see or understand? Are your hearts hardened? 18 Do you have eyes but fail to see, and ears but fail to hear? And don’t you remember? 19 When I broke the five loaves for the five thousand, how many basketfuls of pieces did you pick up?”
“Twelve,” they replied.
20 “And when I broke the seven loaves for the four thousand, how many basketfuls of pieces did you pick up?”
They answered, “Seven.”
21 He said to them, “Do you still not understand?” 

## What is it that the disciples misunderstood in Mark 8:14-21?

I have always interpreted this passage as a warning against wordliness and as a warning against the Pharasees' teachings and its effect on them. Since the Pharisees rule the religious world at that time, they were in some effect affecting how people who worship God think and live. Jesus knew that what the Pharisees were teaching could have an effect on their hearts.

> Just like a bread which is made of yeast. The yeast is a rising agent.  When it is added to bread it is mixed and worked through the entire dough and it combines the whole lump.  When we receive false teachings and legalistic teachings of the Pharisees, it would affect how we live out our faith.
 https://dennissy.com/mark-814-21-why-jesus-warned-us-about-the-pharisees/

 However, I now think Jesus' words hold a slightly deeper meaning. Notice that he refers back to his feeding of five, and four thousands. Why would he do that? At first, it seems like the yeast of the Pharisees and the miracles are linked by their bread. 
 
Jesus (I think) is trying to remind his disciples about what the point of miracles really are. On one level, the disciples are worrying about having no bread. Yet Jesus reminds them that he has fed crowds of thousands not once, but twice in the past! He is more than capable, so there is no reason for the disciples to worry. (The disciples have a lack of faith basically.) On another level, Jesus does indeed hint that the disciples, like the pharasees are too materialistic and focused on worldy signs. Equivalently, the disciples still don't quite seem to understand that Jesus is God, the same one who provides. https://hermeneutics.stackexchange.com/a/43821

## Resources

- [https://hermeneutics.stackexchange.com/questions/41331/what-is-it-that-the-disciples-misunderstood-in-mark-814-21](https://hermeneutics.stackexchange.com/questions/41331/what-is-it-that-the-disciples-misunderstood-in-mark-814-21)